# 1. CMake Configuration Options

This document describes the CMake configuration options for MOS.

Upon each CMake invocation, MOS will print a summary of the current configuration, which
should look like:

```log
  Limits
    Max length of a path ........................... MOS_PATH_MAX_LENGTH = 256 (default)
    Pages of kernel stack ....................... MOS_STACK_PAGES_KERNEL = 16 (default)
    Pages of user stack ........................... MOS_STACK_PAGES_USER = 32 (default)
  Initrd Items
    /programs/init .............................................. TARGET = init
    /assets/ ................................................. DIRECTORY = @/assets/{symlink-abs, symlink-bad, symlink-dir, symlink-rel}
  Kernelspace Unit Tests
    Kernel Unit Tests .................................... BUILD_TESTING = OFF (default)
    Enable kmalloc test ................................... TEST_kmalloc = OFF (default)
    Enable linked list test ........................... TEST_linked_list = OFF (same as default)
    Enable printf family test .............................. TEST_printf = ON (overridden, default is OFF)
```

You can see that the summary is divided into sections, each section has a list of items. There are two
kinds of items:

- `Informational Summary`:
  These are information just for the user to know.
- `Option Values and Documentation`:
  These are the options that can be configured by the user.

---

## Informational Summary

These includes the following sections:

- `Bootable Targets`:
  The targets that can be booted.
- `Initrd Items`:
  The items that will be included in the initrd. In this section, the directory structure of the initrd is also shown, together where those files are from.
- `Userspace Targets`:
  The targets that will be built for userspace. These are basically all the userspace programs.
- `Utility Targets`:
  Meta-targets that helps with building and testing MOS, such as generating system call wrappers and
  creating initial ramdisks.

The values in these sections are not configurable, and are generated by the CMake scripts.

---

## Option Values and Documentation

You may have found that the basic format is:

```log
  Section Name
    Option Documentation ...................................... VARIABLE = Value (Source)
```

Where `Source` is one of:

- `default`:
  The option was not explicitly set, thus the value is inherited from the default.
- `overridden, same as default`:
  The option was explicitly set to the same value as the default.
- `overridden, default is ...`:
  The option was explicitly set to a different value than the default.

Unless that option is `overridden`, it will have the default value, and will always follow the
default value even if the default value is changed.

---

### Setting and Unsetting Values

To set or update an option, use the `-D` flag in CMake, e.g. `cmake . -DMOS_STACK_PAGES_KERNEL=32` to set the kernel stack size to 32 pages.

To undefine an option, use the `-U` flag in CMake, e.g. `cmake . -UMOS_STACK_PAGES_KERNEL` to unset the kernel stack size, thus reverting it to the default value.

Multiple `-D` and `-U` flags can be used in a single CMake invocation.

#### Options that are Generally Safe to Change

These are options that are generally safe to change, as it does not require careful consideration or
extensive testing. These options are:

- `MOS_STACK_PAGES_KERNEL`: The number of pages to allocate for the kernel stack.
- `MOS_STACK_PAGES_USER`: The number of pages to allocate for the user stack.
- `MOS_PATH_MAX_LENGTH`: The maximum length limitation for a path.
- `MOS_PROCESS_MAX_THREADS`: The maximum number of threads per process.
- `MOS_PROCESS_MAX_OPEN_FILES`: The maximum number of open files per process.
- `BUILD_TESTING`: Build MOS tests in addition to the kernel, This option acts as a default for all tests.
  - `TEST_<test_name>`: Build the test `<test_name>`.
- `MOS_DEBUG_ALL`: Enable all debugging logs in one go.
  - `MOS_DEBUG_<feature>`: Enable debugging logs for one specific feature.

#### Options that Require Careful Consideration

- `MOS_MAX_CPU_COUNT`: The maximum number of CPUs that MOS can support.

  **WARNING**: Changing this value requires an update to the platform-specific code.

- `MOS_KERNEL_START_VADDR`: The virtual address where the kernel is loaded.

  **WARNING**: Changing this value requires an update to the platform-specific code, especially the linker script.

- `MOS_PAGE_SIZE`: The page size of the platform.

  **WARNING**: One may never need to change this value.

- `MOS_MM_LIBALLOC_LOCKS`: Whether to use locks in the memory allocator.

  **WARNING**: Not using locks in a multi-core environment (e.g. SMP) **WILL** lead to data corruption.

#### Other Options

There are always other options that are not listed here. These options are either:

- Not meant to be changed by the user.
- Not covered in this document (e.g., platform-specific options).

---

### Defining New Options & Adding Summary Items

The following CMake functions are provided.

#### add_summary_section(SECTION_ID NAME)

Add a new section to the summary. It's suggested that `SECTION_ID` to be upper case.

- `SECTION_ID` is a unique id that will be used to refer to the section
- `NAME` is the name of the section (e.g. `Limits`).

#### add_summary_item(SECTION_ID VARIABLE VALUE DESCRIPTION)

Add a new item to the section `SECTION_ID`.

- `SECTION_ID` is the id of the section (e.g. `LIMITS`)
- `VARIABLE` is the variable name of the item (e.g. `MOS_PATH_MAX_LENGTH`)
- `VALUE` is the value of the item (e.g. `256`)
- `DESCRIPTION` is the description of the item (e.g. `Max length of a path`)

#### mos_kconfig(SECTION_ID variable default_value description)

This function is similar to `add_summary_item`, but it also:

- defines a macro `variable` that can be used in the source code.
- sets the default value of `variable` to `default_value` if it is not specified by the user.
